IGNITE-12977 Documentation. (#8245)
apache/ignite: docs/_docs/restapi.adoc

====

== Data Types
The REST API also supports <<Java built-in types>> and <<Custom user defined types>> for put/get operations via `keyType` and `valueType` optional parameters.

> Note that unless one of the mentioned below types are explicitly specified, the REST protocol exchanges the key-value data in `String` format.

Author: fixed, thanks

http://[host]:[port]/ignite?cmd=get&key=1&cacheName=myCache&keyType=int&valueType=date
----

=== Custom user defined types

For custom objects, the JSON format is used. For example, we can work with the following object using the REST API:
[source, javascript]
 {
  "uid": "7e51118b-eb15-4373-b57f-4984cb9cd7ac",
  "name": "John Doe",
  "organization": 5678901,
  "married": false,
  "salary": 156.1
 }

The following request puts this object into the cache `testCache` as a value with a type name `Person` and a key `1`.

 http://[host]:[port]/ignite?cacheName=testCache&cmd=put&keyType=int&key=1&valueType=Person&val=%7B%0A+++++%22uid%22%3A+%227e51118b-eb15-4373-b57f-4984cb9cd7ac%22%2C%0A+++++%22name%22%3A+%22John+Doe%22%2C%0A+++++%22organization%22%3A+5678901%2C%0A+++++%22married%22%3A+false%2C%0A+++++%22salary%22%3A+156.1%0A++%7D&

On the server side, the JSON value from this request will be converted to link:/docs/data-modeling/data-modeling#binary-object-format[binary object]. Field types are resolved in the following order:

> * If the type name is a `Java class` available on the server, the class field types with corresponding names will be used for JSON object field types resolving.

Author: fixed, thanks

* If the type name is a `query entity` type, the field types will be resolved according to the field type defined in the `query entity`.
* Otherwise, the field types will be resolved according to regular JSON types.

For example, if there is no definition of the "Person" type on the server, the fields will be converted in accordance with the standard JSON types:
[source, javascript]
"uid": "7e51118b-eb15-4373-b57f-4984cb9cd7ac", // string
"name": "John Doe",                            // string
"organization": 5678901,                       // int
"married": false,                              // boolean
"salary": 156.1                                // double

> In case the `query entity` was set

Reviewer: If the `query entity` is set

> If the `query entity` is set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `query entity` is set, query fields will be filled with given values.
```

[source,xml]
 <bean class="org.apache.ignite.cache.QueryEntity">
  <property name="keyType"   value="java.lang.Integer"/>
  <property name="valueType" value="Person"/>
  <property name="fields">
   <map>
    <entry key="uid"          value="java.util.UUID"/>
    <entry key="name"         value="java.lang.String"/>
    <entry key="organization" value="java.lang.Long"/>
    <entry key="married"      value="java.lang.Boolean"/>
    <entry key="salary"       value="java.lang.Float"/>
   </map>
  </property>
 </bean>

> or Java class "Person" loaded on the server.

Reviewer: '...is loaded on the server.'

> or Java class "Person" is loaded on the server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Java class "Person" is loaded on the server, class fields will be filled with given values.
```
